docs/features.md, before:

# VClans technical documentation of all features

This document provides a comprehensive overview of the features available in VClans, including their functionality and
usage.

## Features Overview

- **Clan System**: The code feature of the plugin. Allows players to create clans, manage members, manage their
  permissions,
  and more.
- **Clan Chat**: A private clan chat for clan members to communicate.
- **Clan Ranks**: The ability to create and manage ranks within a clan, allowing for different permissions and roles.
- **Chunk Claims**: The ability to claim chunks for a clan, protecting them from other players.
- **Chunk Radar**: A hud that shows claimed chunks in the player's vicinity.
- **BlueMap Support**: Integration with BlueMap to visualize clan claims on the map.
- **WorldGuard Support**: Adds a new region flag to prevent chunk claims in WorldGuard regions.
- **Vault Economy**: Uses Vault for economy support, allowing clans to charge for chunk claims and other features.
- **EssentialsXChat Prefixes**: Integration with EssentialsXChat to add clan prefixes to player names in chat.

## Feature Details

### Clan System

The core feature of VClans. It allows any player to create a clan, manage it's members and claim chunks for the clan.
Clans have many attributes:

- **Id**: A unique identifier for the clan that is set at clan creation `/clan create <id>` and cannot be changed. The
  id has to be unique and has many restrictions such as no spaces, no special characters, and a maximum length of 16
  characters. The clan id is used to reference the clan, because the name of the clan can be challenging to use in
  commands. (i.e. `/clan join <id>` instead of /clan join <name>)
- **Name**: The name of the clan, which can be set with `/clan rename <name>`. The name has a configurable maximum
  length of 32 characters and can contain spaces and minecraft formatting codes for colors. (`/clan rename &4My Clan` to
  name the clan "My Clan" with red color)
- **Color**: Color of the clans territory, used in the chunk radar and BlueMap. The color can be set with
  `/clan color <r> <g> <b>`. The color is represented as RGB values, each ranging from 0 to 255.
- **Tier**: The tier of the clan, which is used to determine the maximum number of members and chunks that can be
  claimed by the clan, but also custom effects like regeneration for clan members and glow effects for enemies in the
  claimed chunks.
- **Prefix**: The prefix of the clan, which is used in the chat and can be set with
  `/clan prefix <prefix>`. The prefix can contain minecraft formatting codes for colors. (`/clan prefix &4MC` to
  set the prefix to "[MC]" with red color)
- **Owner**: The player who created the clan. The owner has all permissions in the clan and can manage members, ranks,
  and chunks. No one else can take the ownership of the clan.
- **Members**: A map of members to a ClanMember object which contains all the relevant information about the member like
  the clan join date and their rank.
- **Ranks**: A map of ranks to a ClanRank object which contains the name of the rank, the permissions (`canClaim`,
  `canKick`, etc) of the rank, and it's priority number. The priority number is used to determine the order of ranks in
  the clan. For example: Members with the rank that has a permission to kick other members, cannot kick members with a
  higher priority rank than them.
- **Invites**: A map of players to ClanInvite objects which track the invitation status of players to the clan. _Does
  not
  persist between server restarts._
- **Chunks**: A set of ClanChunks which contains all the chunks claimed by the clan. Each chunk has a size of 16x16 and
  spans the whole height of the world. The chunks offer protection against other players, meaning that
  only clan members can build and interact with blocks in the claimed chunks.

Most of these attributes can be viewed by the server administrators in the `clans.json` file in the plugins folder.

### Commands

The commands are designed to be intuitive and easy to use, with most commands having a dynamic suggestion system that
doesn't suggest subcommands that the player does not have permission to use or does not suggest options that do not make
sense to suggest (`/clan invite <player>` will only suggest players that are **not** currently in a clan).
Also most commands have a permission node tied to them that the owner can use to restrict access to certain commands.

#### `/clan`

- `/clan`: used as is just displays the current clan of the player.
    - `/clan help`: displays a list of all available subcommands and their usage.
    - `/clan create <id>`: creates a new clan with the given id. The id has to be unique and has many restrictions
      such as no spaces, no special characters, and a maximum length of 16 characters.
    - `/clan disband`: disbands the clan, removing all members and chunks. Only the owner can disband the clan.
    - `/clan rename <name>`: renames the clan to the given name. The name has a configurable maximum length of
      characters
      and
      can contain spaces and minecraft formatting codes for colors.
    - `/clan prefix <prefix>`: sets the prefix of the clan to the given prefix. The prefix can contain minecraft
      formatting codes for colors.
    - `/clan color <r> <g> <b>`: sets the color of the clan to the given RGB values. Each value ranges from 0 to 255.
    - `/clan invite <player>`: invites the given player to the clan.
    - `/clan join <id>`: joins the clan with the given id. The player has to be invited to the clan first.
    - `/clan leave`: leaves the clan, removing the player from the clan. Owners cannot leave the clan, they have to
      disband
      it
      instead.
    - `/clan kick <player>`: kicks the given player from the clan.
    - `/clan list <id>`: if a clan id is given, lists all members of the clan with their ranks.
      If no id is given, lists all clans on the server.
    - `/clan upgrade`: upgrades the clan to the next tier if the player running the command can afford it. Tiers are
      configurable in the configs explained further down.
    - `/clan rank <player> <rank>`:
        - if player and rank are given, sets the rank of the player to the given rank.
        - If only player is given, displays the rank information of the player.
        - If ran as is `/clan rank`, shows a GUI to create, edit and delete ranks. See the GUI section bellow for more
          information.
- `/chunk`: used as is just displays information about the chunk the player is currently in.
    - `/chunk claim`: claims the chunk for the clan the player is currently in. The player has to be in a clan and
      have the permission to claim chunks. The chunk has to be unclaimed, far enough away from other claimed chunks or
      WorldGuard protected regions with the custom flag (more info down below), and has to be adjacent to another
      claimed chunk.
    - `/chunk unclaim`: unclaims the chunk for the clan the player is currently in. The player has to be in a clan and
      have the permission to unclaim chunks. The chunk can not be unclaimed if it will split the claimed chunks into 2
      or more distinct territories.
    - `/chunk radar`: toggles the chunk radar on or off. The chunk radar shows all claimed chunks in the player's
      vicinity in a 5x5 grid with the north pointing upward.
- `/confirm`: if a command requires confirmation (see the configuration section below), the player will be prompted to
  run `/confirm` within a certain time limit to confirm the command.
- `/cancel`: if a command requires confirmation, the player can run `/cancel` to cancel the command.

### Rank GUI

The rank GUI is an interface that allows members with permission `canChangeRank` to create, assign, edit and delete
ranks
that are lower priority than their own. To open the GUI, run `/clan rank`. The image below shows the default clan rank
setup.

The first row shows the rank management controls: Create, Delete, Edit ranks, "Your Rank" button to view info about your
rank, and close the GUI button. Pressing the Create button will open a different interface to create a new rank (see
the second image). Pressing the Delete button and then clicking on a rank will delete that rank. Pressing the Edit
button and
then clicking on a rank will open the edit rank interface (similar GUI to the Create interface).

The remaining rows show the ranks in the clan represented by metal ingots. Gold ingots signify that there
is at least one player with said, while iron signifies that there are no players with that rank. Gold block is reserved
for the owner rank (since there can not be a clan without an owner there can't be an iron block). The nugget is reserved
for the member rank, which is the default rank for all new members and has no permissions.
![rank-manager.png](images%2Frank-manager.png)

The creation and the edit interfaces are similar. In there the top row is again filled with management controls: Save
Changes, Rank Title, Priority number controls, Copy Your Rank Permissions, and Cancel. The remaining rows are filled
with the different permissions represented by colored wool blocks. Red wool means the permission is disabled, green wool
means the permission is enabled. Red concrete means that you can't edit this permission.
![rank-creation.png](images%2Frank-creation.png)
The rank title can contain minecraft formatting codes for colors, so you can create ranks like "Member" with
`&7Member` or "Moderator" with `&aModerator`. The priority number is used to determine the order of ranks in the clan.
The higher the number, the higher the priority. For example, a rank with priority 1 can not kick members with
priority 2. When saving changes, the player will be prompted to set a ranks id, which has to be unique and can not
contain spaces or special characters. The rank id is used to reference the rank in commands, because the name of the
rank can be challenging to use in commands (i.e. `/clan rank Alex_Joo admin` instead of
`/clan rank Alex_Joo &4Super &3Cool &Admin`).

### Clan tiers

Clans can be upgraded to different tiers, which are configurable in the `clan-tiers` section in the configs.
Each tier has a label, maximum number of members, maximum number of chunks that can be claimed, a cost to upgrade to
that tier and a list of buffs and debuffs that apply to clan members and enemies in the claimed chunks.

### Chunk Claims

Chunk claims provide protection for the clan's territory, forbidding any other players outside the clan from interacting
with it. Chunk claims have to be adjacent to another claimed chunk, and can not be claimed if they are too close to
other claimed territories or WorldGuard protected regions. When entering and leaving a claimed chunk, the player will be
notified with a message on screen. To help players navigate the claimed chunks, a chunk radar is available with the
command `/chunk radar` that will show a 5x5 grid of claimed chunks in the player's vicinity.

If Vault is installed on the server, the chunk claiming can be configured to cost money, for example:

```yaml
chunk-cost-formula: "100x" # x is the amount of currently claimed chunks by the clan
```

### Configs

gonna write later.

Commit message:

forgot to add clan chat command description

docs/features.md, after:

# VClans technical documentation of all features

This document provides a comprehensive overview of the features available in VClans, including their functionality and
usage.

## Features Overview

- **Clan System**: The code feature of the plugin. Allows players to create clans, manage members, manage their
  permissions,
  and more.
- **Clan Chat**: A private clan chat for clan members to communicate.
- **Clan Ranks**: The ability to create and manage ranks within a clan, allowing for different permissions and roles.
- **Chunk Claims**: The ability to claim chunks for a clan, protecting them from other players.
- **Chunk Radar**: A hud that shows claimed chunks in the player's vicinity.
- **BlueMap Support**: Integration with BlueMap to visualize clan claims on the map.
- **WorldGuard Support**: Adds a new region flag to prevent chunk claims in WorldGuard regions.
- **Vault Economy**: Uses Vault for economy support, allowing clans to charge for chunk claims and other features.
- **EssentialsXChat Prefixes**: Integration with EssentialsXChat to add clan prefixes to player names in chat.

## Feature Details

### Clan System

The core feature of VClans. It allows any player to create a clan, manage it's members and claim chunks for the clan.
Clans have many attributes:

- **Id**: A unique identifier for the clan that is set at clan creation `/clan create <id>` and cannot be changed. The
  id has to be unique and has many restrictions such as no spaces, no special characters, and a maximum length of 16
  characters. The clan id is used to reference the clan, because the name of the clan can be challenging to use in
  commands. (i.e. `/clan join <id>` instead of /clan join <name>)
- **Name**: The name of the clan, which can be set with `/clan rename <name>`. The name has a configurable maximum
  length of 32 characters and can contain spaces and minecraft formatting codes for colors. (`/clan rename &4My Clan` to
  name the clan "My Clan" with red color)
- **Color**: Color of the clans territory, used in the chunk radar and BlueMap. The color can be set with
  `/clan color <r> <g> <b>`. The color is represented as RGB values, each ranging from 0 to 255.
- **Tier**: The tier of the clan, which is used to determine the maximum number of members and chunks that can be
  claimed by the clan, but also custom effects like regeneration for clan members and glow effects for enemies in the
  claimed chunks.
- **Prefix**: The prefix of the clan, which is used in the chat and can be set with
  `/clan prefix <prefix>`. The prefix can contain minecraft formatting codes for colors. (`/clan prefix &4MC` to
  set the prefix to "[MC]" with red color)
- **Owner**: The player who created the clan. The owner has all permissions in the clan and can manage members, ranks,
  and chunks. No one else can take the ownership of the clan.
- **Members**: A map of members to a ClanMember object which contains all the relevant information about the member like
  the clan join date and their rank.
- **Ranks**: A map of ranks to a ClanRank object which contains the name of the rank, the permissions (`canClaim`,
  `canKick`, etc) of the rank, and it's priority number. The priority number is used to determine the order of ranks in
  the clan. For example: Members with the rank that has a permission to kick other members, cannot kick members with a
  higher priority rank than them.
- **Invites**: A map of players to ClanInvite objects which track the invitation status of players to the clan. _Does
  not
  persist between server restarts._
- **Chunks**: A set of ClanChunks which contains all the chunks claimed by the clan. Each chunk has a size of 16x16 and
  spans the whole height of the world. The chunks offer protection against other players, meaning that
  only clan members can build and interact with blocks in the claimed chunks.

Most of these attributes can be viewed by the server administrators in the `clans.json` file in the plugins folder.

### Commands

The commands are designed to be intuitive and easy to use, with most commands having a dynamic suggestion system that
doesn't suggest subcommands that the player does not have permission to use or does not suggest options that do not make
sense to suggest (`/clan invite <player>` will only suggest players that are **not** currently in a clan).
Also most commands have a permission node tied to them that the owner can use to restrict access to certain commands.

#### `/clan`

- `/clan`: used as is just displays the current clan of the player.
    - `/clan help`: displays a list of all available subcommands and their usage.
    - `/clan create <id>`: creates a new clan with the given id. The id has to be unique and has many restrictions
      such as no spaces, no special characters, and a maximum length of 16 characters.
    - `/clan chat`: toggles the clan chat on or off. When the clan chat is enabled, all messages sent in the chat will
      be sent to the clan chat instead of the global chat and be seen only by clan members.
    - `/clan disband`: disbands the clan, removing all members and chunks. Only the owner can disband the clan.
    - `/clan rename <name>`: renames the clan to the given name. The name has a configurable maximum length of
      characters
      and
      can contain spaces and minecraft formatting codes for colors.
    - `/clan prefix <prefix>`: sets the prefix of the clan to the given prefix. The prefix can contain minecraft
      formatting codes for colors.
    - `/clan color <r> <g> <b>`: sets the color of the clan to the given RGB values. Each value ranges from 0 to 255.
    - `/clan invite <player>`: invites the given player to the clan.
    - `/clan join <id>`: joins the clan with the given id. The player has to be invited to the clan first.
    - `/clan leave`: leaves the clan, removing the player from the clan. Owners cannot leave the clan, they have to
      disband
      it
      instead.
    - `/clan kick <player>`: kicks the given player from the clan.
    - `/clan list <id>`: if a clan id is given, lists all members of the clan with their ranks.
      If no id is given, lists all clans on the server.
    - `/clan upgrade`: upgrades the clan to the next tier if the player running the command can afford it. Tiers are
      configurable in the configs explained further down.
    - `/clan rank <player> <rank>`:
        - if player and rank are given, sets the rank of the player to the given rank.
        - If only player is given, displays the rank information of the player.
        - If ran as is `/clan rank`, shows a GUI to create, edit and delete ranks. See the GUI section bellow for more
          information.
- `/chunk`: used as is just displays information about the chunk the player is currently in.
    - `/chunk claim`: claims the chunk for the clan the player is currently in. The player has to be in a clan and
      have the permission to claim chunks. The chunk has to be unclaimed, far enough away from other claimed chunks or
      WorldGuard protected regions with the custom flag (more info down below), and has to be adjacent to another
      claimed chunk.
    - `/chunk unclaim`: unclaims the chunk for the clan the player is currently in. The player has to be in a clan and
      have the permission to unclaim chunks. The chunk can not be unclaimed if it will split the claimed chunks into 2
      or more distinct territories.
    - `/chunk radar`: toggles the chunk radar on or off. The chunk radar shows all claimed chunks in the player's
      vicinity in a 5x5 grid with the north pointing upward.
- `/confirm`: if a command requires confirmation (see the configuration section below), the player will be prompted to
  run `/confirm` within a certain time limit to confirm the command.
- `/cancel`: if a command requires confirmation, the player can run `/cancel` to cancel the command.

### Rank GUI

The rank GUI is an interface that allows members with permission `canChangeRank` to create, assign, edit and delete
ranks
that are lower priority than their own. To open the GUI, run `/clan rank`. The image below shows the default clan rank
setup.

The first row shows the rank management controls: Create, Delete, Edit ranks, "Your Rank" button to view info about your
rank, and close the GUI button. Pressing the Create button will open a different interface to create a new rank (see
the second image). Pressing the Delete button and then clicking on a rank will delete that rank. Pressing the Edit
button and
then clicking on a rank will open the edit rank interface (similar GUI to the Create interface).

The remaining rows show the ranks in the clan represented by metal ingots. Gold ingots signify that there
is at least one player with said, while iron signifies that there are no players with that rank. Gold block is reserved
for the owner rank (since there can not be a clan without an owner there can't be an iron block). The nugget is reserved
for the member rank, which is the default rank for all new members and has no permissions.
![rank-manager.png](images%2Frank-manager.png)

The creation and the edit interfaces are similar. In there the top row is again filled with management controls: Save
Changes, Rank Title, Priority number controls, Copy Your Rank Permissions, and Cancel. The remaining rows are filled
with the different permissions represented by colored wool blocks. Red wool means the permission is disabled, green wool
means the permission is enabled. Red concrete means that you can't edit this permission.
![rank-creation.png](images%2Frank-creation.png)
The rank title can contain minecraft formatting codes for colors, so you can create ranks like "Member" with
`&7Member` or "Moderator" with `&aModerator`. The priority number is used to determine the order of ranks in the clan.
The higher the number, the higher the priority. For example, a rank with priority 1 can not kick members with
priority 2. When saving changes, the player will be prompted to set a ranks id, which has to be unique and can not
contain spaces or special characters. The rank id is used to reference the rank in commands, because the name of the
rank can be challenging to use in commands (i.e. `/clan rank Alex_Joo admin` instead of
`/clan rank Alex_Joo &4Super &3Cool &Admin`).

### Clan tiers

Clans can be upgraded to different tiers, which are configurable in the `clan-tiers` section in the configs.
Each tier has a label, maximum number of members, maximum number of chunks that can be claimed, a cost to upgrade to
that tier and a list of buffs and debuffs that apply to clan members and enemies in the claimed chunks.

### Chunk Claims

Chunk claims provide protection for the clan's territory, forbidding any other players outside the clan from interacting
with it. Chunk claims have to be adjacent to another claimed chunk, and can not be claimed if they are too close to
other claimed territories or WorldGuard protected regions. When entering and leaving a claimed chunk, the player will be
notified with a message on screen. To help players navigate the claimed chunks, a chunk radar is available with the
command `/chunk radar` that will show a 5x5 grid of claimed chunks in the player's vicinity.

If Vault is installed on the server, the chunk claiming can be configured to cost money, for example:

```yaml
chunk-cost-formula: "100x" # x is the amount of currently claimed chunks by the clan
```

### Configs

gonna write later.
